# Voice-biometric -Pitch recognition is a major biometric recognition approach that recognize individual on basis of one’s voice. According to the purpose of recognition, the task can be divided into two distinct branches known as speech identification which decides if a speech of a specific person and the speech verification which decides to either accept or reject the identity which is claimed by the speech. The Speaker recognition is typically achieved using two distinct phases, a training phase, and a testing phase. The training process involves in collecting speech samples from the speakers and storing them in a dataset. The testing phase involves in decision making, by comparing speech samples of unknown speakers with the models. Speaker recognition has a significant potential as a convenient biometric method that can be easily tested remotely through a telephone network and does not require sophisticated or dedicated hardware.The input signal will be taken, and it is converted to frequency domain. The signal with pitch and pitch period is compared with the signals stored in the dataset using correlation algorithm. The correlation between two waveforms is a measure of their similarity. The waveforms are compared at different time intervals, and their “sameness” is calculated at each interval. The result of a correlation is a measure of similarity as a function of time lag between the beginnings of the two waveforms. The autocorrelation function is the correlation of a waveform with itself. One would expect exact similarity at a time lag of zero, with increasing dissimilarity as the time lag increases.Audio possesses various features, which have specific behaviour with respect to the category of audio. Such behaviour can be used to differentiate various classes of audio. Picking up the features is a key of proper classification. Therefore, most of the classification systems emphasis on feature selection and extraction. Speech recognition is the process by which a computer (or other type of machine) identifies spoken words. Basically, it means talking to the computer, and having it correctly recognize what you are saying. This is the key to any speech related application. As shall be explained later, there are a number ways to do this, but the basic principle is to somehow extract certain key features from the uttered speech and then treat those features as the key to recognizing the word when it is uttered again.
